With Amazon EC2, you pay only for the compute time that you use. Amazon EC2 offers a variety of pricing options for different use cases. For example, if your use case can withstand interruptions, you can save with Spot Instances. You can also save by committing early and locking in a minimum level of use with Reserved Instances.

There are  five categories

1. On-Demand Instances : On-Demand Instances are ideal for short-term, irregular workloads that cannot be interrupted. No upfront costs or minimum contracts apply. The instances run continuously until you stop them, and you pay for only the compute time you use.

Sample use cases for On-Demand Instances include developing and testing applications and running applications that have unpredictable usage patterns. On-Demand Instances are not recommended for workloads that last a year or longer because these workloads can experience greater cost savings using Reserved Instances.

2. Reserved Instances : Reserved Instances are a billing discount applied to the use of On-Demand Instances in your account. There are two available types of Reserved Instances:

a) Standard Reserved Instances: This option is a good fit if you know the EC2 instance type and size you need for your steady-state applications and in which AWS Region you plan to run them.

b) Convertible Reserved Instances: If you need to run your EC2 instances in different Availability Zones or different instance types, then Convertible Reserved Instances might be right for you. Note: You trade in a deeper discount when you require flexibility to run your EC2 instances.

3. EC2 Instance Savings Plans: AWS offers Savings Plans for a few compute services, including Amazon EC2. EC2 Instance Savings Plans reduce your EC2 instance costs when you make an hourly spend commitment to an instance family and Region for a 1-year or 3-year term. This term commitment results in savings of up to 72 percent compared to On-Demand rates. Any usage up to the commitment is charged at the discounted Savings Plans rate (for example, $10 per hour). Any usage beyond the commitment is charged at regular On-Demand rates.

4. Spot Instances : Spot Instances are ideal for workloads with flexible start and end times, or that can withstand interruptions. Spot Instances use unused Amazon EC2 computing capacity and offer you cost savings at up to 90% off of On-Demand prices.

5. Dedicated Hosts : Dedicated Hosts are physical servers with Amazon EC2 instance capacity that is fully dedicated to your use
